Rules

This is my own summarised translation of the rules as printed in JdlG [tk].  A fuller translation of that portion of the book was made by a collaborator and frequent translator of Debord's works. [http://www.classwargames.net/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/THE-RULES-OF-THE-GAME-OF-WAR1.pdf tk from https://www.classwargames.net/?p=1636 ]

1. North and South armies start on the top 10 (K to T) and bottom 10 (A to J) rows respectively

Non-moving features on each side:

2. Mountains.  9 squares
    impassable to troops
    impassable to weapons
    impassable to communications
3. Mountain-pass.  1 square
4. Arsenal.  2 squares
5. Fortress.  3 squares

6. All squares can be occupied by any moving piece, except where there are mountains.

7. At the start of the game each side places its troops freely on its own side of the board, without knowledge of the other side's placement.

8. First move is by coin-toss.  After, turns alternate.

9. A turn consists of moving up to 5 pieces, and ends with an optional attack.

10. Win conditions.  Any of:
    a) all opposing troops destroyed
    b) both opposing arsenals destroyed
        an arsenal is destroyed once its square is occupied by an opposing fighting piece at the end of that opposing player's turn (this is checked _after_ any attack is carried out)
    c) opponent surrenders

11. Draw condition: mutual agreement of the players.
    

Fighting pieces (per side at start):

12. Infantry (9)
    Movement: 1
    Weapons Range: 2
    Attack: 4
    Defence: 6
        in Mountain-pass: 8
        in Fortress: 10
13. Cavalry (4)
    Movement: 2
    Weapons Range: 2
        charging attack range: 4
    Attack (not-charging): 4
        charging (adjacent to attacked square, or directly in line with other charging cavalry and attacked square): 7
        * cannot charge against a piece in a Mountain-pass or Fortress
        * cannot charge from inside a Fortress
    Defence: 5
14. Artillery (1)
    Movement: 1
    Weapons Range: 3
    Attack: 5
    Defence: 8
        in Mountain-pass: 10
        in Fortress: 12
15. Artillery-mounted (1)
    Movement: 2
    Weapons Range: 3
    Attack: 5
    Defence: 8
        in Mountain-pass: 10
        in Fortress: 12
        
16. All co-efficients (Movement, Attack, Defence) are 0 for any fighting piece which is not in communication.
    
17. Movement is to any of the 8 adjacent squares.  For pieces which can move more than one square per turn, changes of direction are allowed.  Movement can only be into/through unoccupied squares.

18. Range is strictly in a straight line, horizontal, vertical, or diagonal.

19. To determine the result of an attack:
    1) add up the Attack co-efficients of all pieces from the attacking side which are directly in line with, and whose range encompasses the attacked square.
    2) add up the Defence co-efficients of all pieces from the defending side which are directly in line with, and whose range encompasses the attacked square (including the piece on the attacked square).
    3)
    if AttackSum <= DefenceSum
        nothing happens
    if AttackSum >= DefenceSum + 2
        defending piece on the attacked square is destroyed, removed from play 
    if AttackSum = DefenceSum + 1
        if there are no unoccupied squares adjacent to the defending piece 
            defending piece on the attacked square is destroyed, removed from play
        else
            defending army must use the _first_ of its 5 moves to move the attacked piece (retreat)
            the attacked piece has an Attack value of 0 for the turn of its retreat


Communication:

20. Arsenals transmit communication in straight lines horizontally, vertically, and diagonally

21. Communication lines are broken by Mountain squares and by enemy pieces.

Transmission pieces (per side at start):
22. Transmission-foot (1):
    Movement: 1
    Range: 2
    Attack: 0
    Defence: 1
23. Transmission-mounted (1):
    Movement: 2
    Range: 2
    Attack: 0
    Defence: 1
    
24. If a transmission piece is in communication, it repeats communication in a straight line in all directions.

25. If a fighting piece is in communication, it repeats communication to all 8 immediately adjacent squares.
